Javier Palomares
03/15/13

Webserver Design Documentation

User Manual
The browser interface provides the user with a text for to input the word
to query and a radio button for each of the disks. The user can query any
desired input up to length 32.The user must enter an input and select a
disk to query. Attempting to query a word without selecting a disk will be
interpreted as no query and will redirect the browser to the query home
page. Selecting a disk and not inputting query is interpreted as an
attempt to search for the empty string in the desired disk and will go
through the disksearch as a legitimate query operation.

Upon processing a query, the browser displays the results of the query
with a message:

"Attempt to query file <disk> for word <query> returns:"
and either
"Word <query> @<path>:<offset>"
if the word is found in the disk, 
"Word <query> not found"
if the word is not found.
or 
"No query done" on bad attempts to query(No disk/query input).

Protocol Descriptions

Browser/Webserver

The browser and webserver communicate solely with get requests. Both the
query and disk forms are set to get methods. Upon a get request, the
webserver parses the path for the disk and query, and after processing the
query, inserts the results into the html string to return to the browser
as a static string.

Browser/Disksearch

The browser and disksearch communicate over a TCP connection. The protocol
has been implemented to include a header at the start of any bitstream
over the TCP containing the length of the bitstream. This allows the
receiving side of the connection to allocate a buffer large enough to hold
the bitstream message prior to begin reading it.This protocol is followed when the webserver sends
the query to the disksearch and when the disksearch send the result to the
webserver.
Skematically,
the webserver sends the word to query in Query_WordLookup,prepending it
with the length of the message.
The disksearch reads in ProcessQuery. First it reads the length, allocates
a buffer to hold a message of that size, reads the message and does the
querying. The result from the query is then prepended with its length and
is sent back to the webserver over the TCP.

